---
layout: post
title: Back to the Basics: Digital Security Pt. 1
date: 2013-10-09 05:24
author: jrj
comments: true
category: [Security]
---
I've been meaning to write up a few posts on security for normal users because I have a lot of friends and family asking questions due to revelations about domestic spying, and the constant barrage of security-related news. However, I finally figured out the thing that's been stopping me: writing primers for typical end users on semi-advanced subjects like PGP encrypting email or securing your home network will not be of service to those readers if they don't have the basics down pat.

Hence, I needed to get this post out of the way first. This will be a review for most, and skippable for many... but just to be sure, if you aren't 100% sure that your ducks are in a row on all of the following list, you should read this as penance as much as education. In no particular order:
<ol>
	<li>Anti-malware running on your PC (this is still optional for Mac users, though not for much longer.)</li>
	<li>Auto updates enabled for your OS and key applications - everything is always up to date, you never delay installing updates.</li>
	<li>You're using a different strong, truly random password for every web site and service. You never use the same password twice, and your passwords are not a word or two with common character replacements like "$erendip1ty" - that will take 10-12 minutes to compromise using a dictionary attack. And just because you appended a number doesn't help.</li>
	<li>Your home computer is not directly connected to the Internet. You have a router (either wired or wireless) between you and the Internet. Connecting directly to your cable or DSL modem is just not an option (unless it happens to be a router, which is increasingly common with newer devices.)</li>
	<li>You practice safe email habits. You never open attachments you're not explicitly expecting (no matter what kind of file they are or who they are from) and you don't click on links - you laboriously re-type the URL into your browser.</li>
</ol>
OK, if you're 100% clear on the list above, you can stop reading. If not, let's go back to the fundamentals...
<h1>Anti Malware Software - Required for PCs, Still Optional for Macs</h1>
If you're running Windows 8 or 8.1, I generally recommend running Windows Defender with its default configuration. This likely shipped with your PC, and was turned on by default. Confirm that it's still running by following these simple instructions:

If you're running Windows 7, I generally recommend running Windows Security Essentials, again, with the default configuration. It's free and easy to use, does a good job of protection, and has less performance impact than most of the software I've looked at. Install and configure it by following these simple instructions.

If you're running Windows Vista, you should seriously consider upgrading to Windows 7. It's faster, simpler, and more reliable. If you can't upgrade to Windows 7 right now for financial or work-related IT reasons (the latter is unlikely, as no self-respecting IT departments deployed Windows Vista) then I still recommend Windows Security Essentials, again in the default configuration. Follow these simple instructions to get up and running, but I still recommend you consider upgrading to Windows 7 as soon as possible (or buy a new Windows 8.1 machine.)

If you're running Windows XP, you need to stop. Seriously, go buy a new computer. I know that's harsh, and not everyone can afford one (there are inexpensive used PCs available) but you have to. It's simply irresponsible to run XP now - Microsoft is going to stop issuing security fixes, and you WILL get hacked. Regularly. You see, whenever Microsoft releases a security update for Windows 7 and Windows 8, hackers will reverse-engineer that update and find out what vulnerability it patches. Now they know what the vulnerability is, and they know it's not fixed on XP. It's going to be open season. You need to get off this creaky, ancient operating system. Unfortunately, that's probably going to mean buying a new computer-- if you're running XP (a decade-plus old operating system) your computer probably isn't up to the task of a modern OS. If you can't upgrade for work-related reasons, quit your job and find another. Your company is about to have serious problems anyway. (Only half kidding.)

If you're running Mac OS X version 10.9 (Mavericks) or 10.8 (Lion) you probably don't need to run anti-malware software yet. Apple is attacked less due to their limited marketshare, and they have some neat mechanisms through which they can shut down the rare malware threats that do occur. As long as you're running one of these versions, and you're keeping your system up to date, anti-malware software is optional. However, if you are so inclined and want to get ahead of the threat, follow these simple instructions...

If you're running an earlier version of Mac OS X, I would recommend updating to a newer version if possible. Apple is not great about back-porting security fixes to older operating systems, and there is at least some threat. I know that older machines aren't always eligible for updates, but it's worth doing if you possibly can. If you are running an older version, you should seriously consider running anti-malware-- you can do so by following these simple instructions...

If you're running Linux, you shouldn't be. Not because there's anything wrong with Linux, but if you've made it this far into this article you are by definition not an advanced user, and Linux probably isn't the right tool for the job. I know I'll get flamed for this, but it's true. That said, if you're running a modern version of a popular distro like Ubuntu, you're pretty secure out of the box... my recommendation if you're happy on Linux is to become an advanced user. Easier said than done, but hey... I said it's probably not the OS for you, and it isn't if you're not trying to become an advanced user. I can't help you there.
<h1>Auto-Update Enabled</h1>
Keeping your system up to date is one of the most essential things you can do to ensure security.
<h1>Unique, Strong, Random Password Per Site</h1>
<h1>Connected Through a Router</h1>
<h1>Practice Safe Email Habits</h1>
<h1>Don't browse the underbelly of the Internet</h1>
&nbsp;
